Millions of our brothers and sisters around the world can recount the blessings they've
gained by remaining loyal to Jehovah and his organization.
And we're privileged to have two such examples here with us today.
Brother and sister William and Sandra Melonfont, brother Melonfont is a helper to the teaching
committee and sister Melonfont's current assignment is in the service department.
And we're looking forward to hearing about their rich spiritual history.
Bill and Sandra were so happy that we could have you here in the studio with us and we
do look forward to learning more about you.
Maybe we'll have to go back.
How did you get on the road that has led you to such many years of faithful loyal service
to Jehovah?
It was back in 1954.
My mother had contact on and off with the witnesses for years.
I was about 20 years old and she was invited to a public talk at the Oakland Central
congregation in California and she asked me, would you accompany me?
And I said, yeah, sure, I'll be happy to go.
Well, I recognized a young man I knew from high school at the meeting and he approached
me after and told me I needed a Bible study.
I really didn't want a Bible study but he insisted and so I said, well, you can come by.
Would you believe it?
I started a Bible study in the Let God be true book.
Four months later I was baptized.
It was exactly what I was looking for and I didn't realize it.
Excellent.
Now, I understand that you were also very involved with sports.
Yes, I was playing ball for a basketball team in Alameda and I enjoyed very much playing
ball but then a decision came up as to what I was going to do because the evenings when
the team played was the same time that we had the service meeting under theocratic ministry
school.
Like a decision and my decision was forget the sports and let's go to the meetings and
enjoy being built up spiritually.
Good choice.
Thank you.
Sandra, your start on the road to a career serving Jehovah.
I suppose you could say that it actually started before I was born.
Before I was born, my parents started on this search for the truth.
It happened because they had lost a little girl in death and they went from church to
church looking for some kind of comfort.
And of course, the clergy had no comfort for them.
They just said, well, God wanted another angel in heaven and that angered my father.
He thought, no, if God wants another angel, he can make one.
He wouldn't take my little girl.
So it just happened that one evening they were listening to the radio long before TV,
of course.
And they heard a Jehovah's Witness give a talk and then the title of that talk was Where
Aren't They Dead?
Imagine.
He gave all the scripture proof about the condition of the dead, the hope for the resurrection.
And my father immediately said, this is the truth.
So they wrote to the radio station, got a copy of the booklet of the talk.
And then also they started receiving the subscription to the watch tower.
But it wasn't until I was born in three years old that the witnesses finally made contact
with us.
Interesting.
It was a real cold winter day.
And even though I was only three years old, I remember this family coming in and they
stayed hours.
I even hid in the closet and went sleep.
But you know, it was just, it was that contact with the visible organization that my family
needed because they knew much of the truth.
They'd been reading the watch tower for a long time.
So my elder sisters, they got baptized right away and started pioneering.
For my brother and I, we were a lot smaller, of course.
We just went along with our parents and came right into the truth.
In fact, I remember was just a couple of years later that we were all going to go to the
big convention in 1950 at Yankee Stadium.
But I knew there was going to be a big baptism there.
But I wanted to go as a baptized Jehovah's Witness.
So my father, everybody made arrangements and my father baptized me in our pond on our
farm with another young sister.
So that was my beginning.
You know, Ron, there's a point I'd like to recall also.
Sandra was at a special convention back in 1941.
That's true.
Even before that.
That was probably my first, you know, big event, theoretically.
Our family, my brother was four years older than I, along with my parents.
So we went to the St. Louis Convention where brother, Rathapur gave his famous talk on
children.
And they separated the lower level of this place that they rented, the stadium was dedicated
to just the young children, well, from five to 18 years of age.
And it was just fantastic, you know, this man, when you're small, this man would look
so big and huge and he had this great, big voice.
And I'll never forget when he looked out on the audience and he said, be whole more than
15,000 new witnesses to the kingdom.
So it was very emotional.
Oh, you still remember it like it?
Oh, yes.
It happened yesterday, right?
How exciting.
So what motivated you to make a choice to get into the full-time service and give your
life to Jehovah?
Well, what motivated me was when I attended a convention also in 56.
I got baptized in 54.
But in 56, I went to a district convention in Albany, California and there was a pioneer
booth because in those days they had a booth set up at the district conventions and various
brothers and sisters would man the booth and answer your questions about pioneer service.
So I approached the booth and an older sister there looked at me and said, you're young
and strong, why aren't you a pioneer?
Well, I felt, well, yes, why not?
So I started pioneering in 1956.
That's what motivated me and I was, really, I looked back at that.
It was one of the best decisions I made in my life.
Excellent.
Yeah.
So you have been making wise decisions from your youth, Sandra, how about you?
Motivating to put in a full-time service.
Well, for a pioneer service, you know, it was like a given.
Young people were just encouraged to pioneer and you knew that when you graduated from high
school, you started out pioneering and most of the young people were doing that.
You know, after a year or two, maybe they would get married and start a family, but those
years and pioneering, starting out their life that way, gave them a wonderful basis for
loyal service, the rest of their life.
And not only that, I remember that in those days, the traveling overseer would stay in
the homes of the brothers when he served the congregation.
And we always played host to the circuit overseer and his wife when they came.
And from my brother and I, they were role models.
My sisters, as I told you, were out pioneering in another assignment.
But for us, these brothers were so full of zeal and they were like heroes to us.
In particular, I remember when I was, I think about 12 years old, this couple came around
on the circuit, Percy and Ilma Islam.
They were also from Australia, and of course, we love their accent, too.
And they had just graduated from Gilead and they were assigned to Japan.
But they had to wait a number of months to get their visa.
They served in our congregation.
And it was really them that instilled in me the desire to become a missionary.
Beautiful.
So you were pioneering.
How did your paths eventually meet?
It was at a circuit assembly in Oakland, California, 1956.
Very interesting things took place.
I had the job of dismantling the stage.
I had not yet met Sandra.
She was out visiting her sister who lived in the same area where I was.
And I was carrying this large piece of plywood off the stage and I ran right into Sandra and
knocked her flat.
Well I took advantage of the opportunity.
I thought, well, that's not the best way to introduce yourself.
But I said, by the way, would you like to accompany me to a get-together, some of the
friends are having and she accepted.
And very good, Bill.
Well, yes.
And I followed through on it.
We had a lot of association and after a number of months, we got married.
And both of us were pioneering, very happy in our ministry serving Jehovah.
You really swept her off her feet, literally.
I felt for it.
Very good.
So shortly after you were married, I understand you received some direction.
Yes.
And the circuit overseer visited our congregation.
We were only married about a month, I think, when he came through.
And he told us that the organization was looking for pioneers who'd be willing to serve
a special pioneers and go wherever where the need was great in the United States, particularly.
So we told them, sure, we'd be delighted to do it.
And four months after our marriage, we received an assignment as special pioneers to Ducora
Ayua.
Now that was a very interesting place because there were only eight publishers in the congregation.
But we arrived, started with the meetings there at the Kingdom Hall.
And the Kingdom Hall was up above Hunt's Variety Store in downtown Ducora.
And we lived in a room behind it.
Well, sometimes, especially during the winter time, because it could be very cold.
There'd be no one at the meeting after all, there were only eight publishers.
But I was insisting that no, I'm going to give my public talk.
Whether anyone's here or not.
So I'd tell Sally, you sit there and I give my public talk, a one hour talk.
And then I'd conduct the watchtower study and have her answer every question.
Well, you know, you're on your own like that.
Not a lot of brothers around.
So you look for encouragement and company.
And we would travel down to Strawberry Point, Ayua, to where Charles and Shirley Sonnetco
lived in a log cabin, one room log cabin.
And we'd go visit with them in order to have some mutual encouragement.
And because they were special pioneering also.
OK, well, you were both special.
Yeah, it's a nice picture of you in that log cabin too, as you were special pioneering.
So you're busy in that work.
What special invitation did you receive?
Well, we received the invitation to attend Gillian, the 34th class of Gillian School.
And that was a wonderful thing.
After two and a half years of pioneering, special pioneering in Ayua,
our instructors were Albert Schroeder, Maxwell Friend, Bob Porter,
and Jack Redford.
And we had a delightful time at Gillian, as you can imagine.
And we were assigned to Lebanon.
But we were unable to enter Lebanon because we couldn't get the visa.
So then the organization asked us, well, will you take an assignment to Morocco?
We were ready to go anywhere.
We're pioneering with the Canarcy congregation just waiting to go out into the field.
So that's how we took a boat from New York City five days across the Atlantic to Casablanca.
Very nice.
What was it like to be in the missionary service in Morocco?
It was very interesting.
We really enjoyed it.
But you know, we only spoke English.
So in Morocco, we had to learn French.
And the first month of our missionary service in Morocco was for 30 days.
You studied the language 11 hours a day.
Well, that could get pretty tiring for 11 hours a day.
So we'd go to the French movies and count that as language time.
And then we were moved to Tangier.
And there was a Spanish congregation in Tangier.
And so we had to learn the Spanish language too.
But that was really a rich blessing for the two of us to be exposed to that culture
and to have that privilege of serving there.
But you know, what I really enjoyed, we had a variety of people we preached to.
We had a very large Jewish population.
And they were almost all Orthodox.
But you know, they were very forthright.
And they were open and quite curious.
You know, like they'd come to us sometimes and say,
well, you're Christian, aren't you?
Why do you accept Jesus as the Messiah?
So we had to get familiar with a lot of scriptures, you know,
that dealt with the prophecy that Messiah would fulfill in the Hebrew scriptures.
And really, it was a delight.
Sandra, remember, there were a lot of French people in Morocco
because it used to be a colony under France.
So that's why the French language was so important.
And then we had Spanish people and many other nationalities there.
So you had four years of serving in Morocco, faithfully,
loyally meeting all those different languages,
learning the language yourself.
So after four years, I understand that you came back to visit your family.
What events were challenging thereafter?
I think Sandra can relate that.
Well, it was usually permitted after you and your assignment four years.
Then you were allowed to come home at least to have a vacation, visit your family.
And so we made arrangements to come back.
We got some tickets on a Yugoslav freighter,
took us two weeks to get back to New York.
But we got back, we visited our family.
And while there, I had a medical examination
and found out that I had a serious health problem.
Of course, we didn't have the funds to cover that.
So Bill wrote to the society.
And we made arrangements.
They said, we'll just take care of your situation
and let us know when you're free.
So he got a job to take care of our medical needs as well as living conditions.
But you know, we just felt like we were failures.
I'd always wanted to be a missionary.
And there we were four years at our assignment.
We come back and plough. We're just there.
But you know, Jehovah knew we were discouraged.
He knew we felt distraught about this.
So he knew just what we needed.
And he gave it to us.
As I got to feeling better and we got more free in our use of time,
we started pioneering and Jehovah blessed our ministry just incredibly.
There were times in this supposedly unproductive territory
that we had up to 25 people attending the meetings.
Many of them got baptized and there are fast friends to this day.
That's incredible. So Jehovah knows what you need and he provides it.
That is beautiful.
What temptation did you have to resist when you came back
and going through these difficulties?
I think it's a temptation that confronts a lot of brothers and sisters
who return because of health reasons.
And some just end up settling down because of their circumstances.
But the temptation there was, well, your home,
you've already done your service in Morocco for a number of years.
You've been in the full time ministry.
Just settled down now by a house.
But really, that wasn't our desire.
So as soon as Sandra got on her feet and was feeling well enough,
we got pioneering.
And then I wrote headquarters and I said, here we are.
We're ready to take on whatever.
What would you like us to do?
You know, I'd like to say here, Ron, that I really appreciate
Bill as my spiritual head.
Because even those, these things presented themselves
in the course of our Theocratic history,
he was always quick to accept the responsibility of what we felt
was our spiritual, familiar, and moral responsibility.
But as soon as these obligations were taken care of,
he was very quick to get us back on the road to meet our spiritual goals
that we had. And I really do appreciate that.
Good example. Thank you.
So you made yourself available to the organization.
Where did they send you next?
A wonderful assignment.
We were sent as special pioneers to Washington, D.C.
to help start a Spanish congregation.
And that was indeed a very rich blessing.
We were there a year and a half until that little congregation
was solid and was formed.
And then we received another blessing.
We pointed to the circuit work.
So I had the Spanish circuit in Florida
from Key West to Orlando, one circuit in the whole state.
Then we came to New York City, lived in the Bronx.
I had a circuit and we did district work in the Spanish field.
Then to Texas, to what they call the Valley of Texas,
the Rio Grande Valley for a couple of years on the circuit.
And then the district in Spanish, from Houston, Texas
to Ubicity, California.
And we loved every minute of it.
Well, that's definitely the traveling work.
I know you're in that work for nearly 10 years.
So I'm sure you really benefited a lot of brothers
and sisters along the way.
Then 1977 rolls around and you receive another invitation.
Yes, indeed.
We were doing pre-convention work in L.D.L.A.
area at the Limerda Assembly Hall.
And we received a letter inviting us to come to Bethel.
And that was a very, very special privilege
to be invited to Bethel.
I went into the service department because at that time,
they invited a number of traveling overseers
to come in and work in the service department.
And Sandra went into housekeeping
and we were both delighted to come to Bethel.
Well, sort of.
I really, I really loved the ministry.
I loved the, especially there's a district
working with the circuit overseer and his wife every week
and out service.
So I wasn't too anxious for this Bethel thing.
But you know, Jehovah again knows what you need.
We came here and we started adjusting to Bethel life
and it really proved out to be a real blessing
because we got the close association
with so many other loyal witnesses of Jehovah.
Yes.
And then for the rest of us that have been able to work
with you over the decades,
appreciate your loyal example working with you.
But I understand shortly after you arrived to Bethel,
you also received some challenging family difficulties
that you needed to deal with.
Yes, Sandra had an older sister who needed help.
Yeah, we were still adjusting like I said.
And we heard that one of my older sisters
that had spent most of her life in the Pioneer Service.
But she had now entered the terminal stages
in her long fight with cancer.
And she needed some home care.
And the brothers at the organization were very kind to me.
And they allowed me some free time to go
and care for that responsibility.
Then it was just a few years later
that my mother was facing a similar situation.
And this time again, the brothers allowed both Bill and I
to be free to go back there.
And my mother was now aged 89.
She had health situation.
She lived alone so she needed care.
And again, they allowed us this time.
We went back.
And just as in the case with my sister,
I was able to keep my mother home just until she died.
And we appreciate so much being granted that free time.
Even though when we left, we didn't know
if it might mean the end of our Bethel career.
But again, we felt the need to fulfill that responsibility.
And you know, Ron, it was a better suite experience.
This is Satan's wicked world.
Death is our enemy.
And it hurts to see a loved one suffer.
But you know, there's this sweet side of it, too,
because we had some shared some wonderful moments together
with my family and experiences, shared experiences.
And we felt good that we had been
able to help these people that had been mentors for us.
Yes.
So loyalty to your family, loyalty to Jehovah.
So you return back to Bethel.
You were busy in your assignments.
And as you mentioned, you work with many loyal ones
at Bethel.
Could you share one such experience with a loyal sister?
Oh, yes.
I was assigned to the alterations department,
the sewing department.
And recently, before that sister,
Gertrude and her husband, Martin Putsinger,
had been called into Bethel.
And he was a member of the governing body.
And she had been trained under a tailor.
So she was excellent in alterations.
But most valuable were our spiritual conversations.
There's so much from that sister.
Once we were talking a group of us about what
our relationship to Jehovah really means.
And Gertrude gave us her idea, her understanding
of her relationship with Jehovah.
She said, you know, sometimes in life,
a situation presents itself.
And it's so personal and so touching
that you don't tell anybody about it, except Jehovah, of course.
And she said, so you prayed at Jehovah,
and you prayed at Jehovah.
And then passed a little time,
and you feel he's answered your prayer.
She said, you know, that is like a little thread
that unites you with Jehovah.
Now, this is the only person in the universe
that shares this experience with you.
So it's very personal.
OK, time goes by another situation presents itself.
And you pray again, well, here's another thread.
And over a period of time, you've
got a bunch of threads connecting you with Jehovah.
And she says, and those threads are all knitted together.
And they form a cord that unites you with Jehovah.
And then she'd say, and don't you ever do anything
to endanger that relationship.
But to me, it just really hit my heart.
I thought, this is so true.
Our relationship with Jehovah and our loyalty to him
has to be the first important thing in our life.
Well, thank you for sharing that.
That has affected all of our hearts.
Appreciate that.
So Bill, you have received many privileges of service
before Bethel and you're 40 years since you've been at Bethel.
One of the privileges that you have had
is traveling to different branches
as a headquarters representative or a zone overseer.
What are some memories you have of all those various visits?
It's a very rich privilege to do it, Ron, to serve at that time
as a zone overseer.
The brothers receive you so well.
Basically, the zone overseer and now the branch represent it.
If he goes to be of encouragement to brothers
and he visits the branch, meets with all the Bethelites
whenever possible, tries to talk to all of them,
giving encouragement, meets with all of the missionaries
in the country.
And you'll receive so warmly.
I remember when Sandra and I visited Tahiti.
We flew into Tahiti, Papayeti Tahiti.
And it was three in the morning when we arrived.
The brothers were absolutely wonderful.
There were about 35 brothers waiting for us.
They're piling flower lays upon us,
giving us a kiss on each cheek,
but the warmth of the brothers
and the joy of being with the Bethel family was something.
That sister didn't have to find any room left on your cheek.
No, so I got a kiss on the top of the head.
But the joy of the brothers was just wonderful.
And we've had a great privilege of visiting a number of branches.
And understand that you traveled to Bolivia
and you had a nice experience in Bolivia.
I just love this work because I got to play missionary
when I was out there.
And of course, my heart was always in the missionary field.
But I remember when we went to Bolivia,
since it was a smaller branch,
I was allowed to go out and work in the service with the missionaries.
And they came and they picked me up at 8 o'clock in the morning
and they said, we're going to take you out to a midnight colony.
And so I left at 8 and I didn't get back to 11 o'clock at night.
And I was a little bit disturbed about that hour, that late or getting back.
Well, you see, it's a midnight community.
They don't have electricity and we didn't have cell phones at that time.
So he had no idea what was happening to me.
But we studied all day with this family.
And eventually, by the way, they all came in the truth.
And their experience came out in 2005.
September 1st, issue of the watchtower
about this family of men and nights that came into the truth.
And now the work is spreading like wildfire among the men and nights.
But anyway, toward the end of the day, it was getting near dusk.
And the missionary just teased me.
He says to the family, well, it's time to melt the cows now.
So bring up the meanest one you've gotten, ascended to milk her.
So of course, he didn't know I was raised on a farm.
So it had rained all day and it was muddy and nasty out there.
But I had my hat heels on, silk blouse, ear rings.
But we went out to the barn and they gave me a bucket.
And I was able to melt the cow.
And she wasn't mean at all.
Well, I'm sure you have many more experiences to let us know about.
But we appreciate you sharing those.
The governing body has made significant adjustments
in the work that is taking place at Bethel and the field.
And it has affected many long time faithful brothers, loyal brothers,
and in the traveling work, overseers in the congregation, overseers at Bethel.
Bill, what do you think about some of these changes
that the governing body has made recently?
I think they're very wise decisions.
They know what is needed.
They appreciate the older men who have served for years.
We know that the older brothers have been in circuit work, district work,
wherever they're worthy of double honor
because of the way they've given of themselves to the work.
But we have to recognize to their comes a time
when we want the younger men to come along, to accept responsibility.
And really, when we were young, we received responsibilities
with very little background and training.
Now we've got all these schools for Kingdom of Angelizers,
the Ministry's Kingdom Ministry School,
so many opportunities for younger ones to be trained.
And so I think it's a wonderful arrangement.
Many thousands of young men are doing so well,
ready to accept responsibility.
It's a blessing for the entire organization.
Well, thank you for sharing that.
That will benefit many brothers.
So we look at this couple before us
and we see someone who has made wise choices along the way.
So we look back at over 60 years of faithful, loyal service.
As you look back at decisions you made in life, any regrets?
Oh, absolutely none.
We consider that whatever we have given up or done,
it's been our gift to Jehovah.
You know, when I was a little girl,
I remember I used to go out on our farm and,
especially when there was a full moon.
And I used to pray to Jehovah and I'd say,
it just let me use up my life in your service.
You know, he's answered that prayer
because my life is majority of it used up
and he's let me do it in his service.
Sort of makes me think of it one of my favorite scriptures,
Jeremiah 29, 11.
It's where Jehovah referring to his faithful, loyal ones.
He says, I will know the thoughts I'm thinking towards you,
not of calamity, but of peace
and of future and of hope.
Now, the calamities that we face in life,
that doesn't come from Jehovah.
That comes from Satan's wicked old world.
But Jehovah promises us peace,
a future and of hope.
Now, how could you not be loyal to such a God?
Beautiful.
And Bill, how do you view sacrifices
that you have made along the way?
Well, as you know, a sacrifice can be something you give up
to serve God, perhaps.
Or a sacrifice can be what you give to Jehovah.
Like David said in Psalm 54,
I will sacrifice to you willingly.
And that's how I view sacrifice.
We're happy to give of ourselves to Jehovah God to serve Him.
And I want to add to Sandra has been a wonderful partner
with me, willing to go anywhere,
put up with all kinds of circumstances and difficulties,
never complained about the travel,
or whatever circumstance we found ourselves in,
living very close to the earth for a number of years,
a special pioneers.
But Jehovah has been with us.
And a scripture that I,
there are a number of good scriptures,
obviously, that we all love.
But one in particular that stays in my mind
is Romans chapter 14 verses 7 and 8.
We live, we live to Jehovah.
We die, we die to Jehovah.
So whether we live or we die,
we belong to Jehovah.
And we've made that decision,
not just because he's the creator.
We've made the decision to give ourselves to Jehovah God.
So absolutely, we've had the best life possible.
We have no regrets at all about what we've done
with our life giving Jehovah the first place.
Bill and Sandra, it's been a real privilege
to hear more about you.
And I know there's more stories to tell.
How can you boil down 60 plus years of loyal service
to Jehovah, but you have given us great insights.
Thank you for sharing those gems with us.